# SBA-Loan-Data-Project

  This is a project looking to rank the number of SBA Loans approved in the past 10 years, comparing 2015-2019 FY to 2020-2024 FY, and try to understand any patterns in the data. The spreadsheets included in this analysis are relating the relative volume and rank compared to the other time periods. This is worked through 3 filters: under $300,000 approved, over $300,000 approved and under $300,000 approved with a 'Canceled' loan status. The exploratory Data Analysis is posted here along with spreadsheets. In conduting the data analysis, I compared the patterns from those two time periods seperately, and together as a whole. I used 1 unsupervised and 3 supervised machine learning models. The unsupervised models constructed were association analyses. The supervised models included a L1 multinominal logistic regression, a random forest model, as well as an artificial neural network, with a target of Loan Status. The analysis revealed similar accuracy for all three with a ~62% accuracy for the earlier time period, a ~68% accuracy for the latter, and a 65% for all 10 years. These models are best able to predict an 'Exempt' status for the latter time period, and 'Paid in Full' for the earlier time period. Although these are not bad accuracy scores and error rates, I do not believe that they are high enough to definitively identify a relationship in the data in the supervised models as a whole, although some interesting relationships in the unsupervised models. In looking to the future, more study is needed to definitely say if there is or is not a meaningful relationship when predicting the loan status.
